docs: add docs on kspp and cis hardening (#480)
siderolabs/docs: public/talos/v1.12/security/talos-default-hardening-and-cis-compliance.mdx

These cover three main areas: kernel pointer exposure, `/proc` access, and unprivileged BPF usage.

To view all active kernel parameter settings and their current values:

```bash
talosctl get kernelparamstatus --nodes <node-ip>
```

### Module and memory controls

The final layer covers what code can be loaded into the kernel and how processes can interact with each other's memory. Talos enforces two controls here, both on by default:

- **Kernel module signature verification (`module.sig_enforce=1`)**: This control allows only cryptographically signed modules to be loaded into the kernel. It ensures that anything entering the kernel can be traced back to a trusted source, preventing tampering via unsigned drivers, a common persistence technique in compromised systems.

- **Process memory write restriction (`proc_mem.force_override=never`)**: Building on that same principle of limiting what can influence running code, this control prevents any process from writing to /proc/PID/mem of another process. Without it, a compromised process could modify another process's memory directly, a technique commonly used in process injection attacks.

## OS-level hardening

> Talos's architecture eliminates entire categories of OS-level risk that traditional Linux hardening guides address:

Reviewer: You're missing SELinux

```bash
kubectl wait --for=condition=complete job/kube-bench-worker --timeout=120s --namespace=kube-bench
kubectl logs job/kube-bench-worker --namespace=kube-bench
```

### Step 5: Interpret the results
 
Once you have the output, you need to read it in the context of Talos's architecture. The failures fall into two categories: false positives caused by Talos's design, and genuine findings that require attention.
 
#### Control plane results (sections 1.1–1.4)
 
The kube-bench control plane output is organized into four sections: section 1.1 covers configuration file permissions, section 1.2 covers the API server, and sections 1.3 and 1.4 cover the controller manager and scheduler respectively.
 
**Section 1.1: Control plane configuration files (all false positives)**
 
Every check in section 1.1 will fail on Talos. This section is entirely concerned with file permissions and ownership of control plane configuration files, things like pod specification files and PKI certificates. kube-bench expects to find these at paths like `/etc/kubernetes/manifests/` and `/etc/kubernetes/pki/`, which is where kubeadm-based clusters store them.
 

> Talos does not use static pod manifests to run control plane components. Instead, Talos uses `machined`, its init system, specially designed to run Kubernetes, to manage system-level services including `etcd`, `kubelet`, and the container runtime. Talos services run under the `system` namespace in containerd, separate from Kubernetes workloads. PKI is managed by `trustd`, Talos's dedicated trust daemon, which handles certificate distribution across the cluster. This means the manifest files and PKI paths kube-bench looks for simply do not exist, not because the controls are missing, but because Talos's architecture does not require them.

Reviewer: Talos actually _does_ use static pod manifests for control plane components (scheduler, controller-manager, etc). Only etcd and kubelet are started by machined

Kernel hardening in Talos operates at four levels:

- **Build-time kernel configuration** — security properties compiled into the kernel that cannot be changed after the kernel is built
- **Boot-time parameters** — kernel flags enforced before userspace starts
- **Runtime sysctl settings** — kernel behavior restrictions applied at runtime
- **Module and memory controls** — restrictions on what code can run and how processes interact with memory

Together these form a layered defense that reduces the kernel's attack surface without any operator configuration.

### Build-time kernel configuration

The first layer of hardening happens before a node ever boots. Talos compiles its kernel with KSPP-recommended configuration options that are baked in and cannot be changed by userspace processes after the kernel is built. This includes options that prevent kernel modules from being loaded by unprivileged userspace, restrict certain memory layouts, and eliminate attack surface that would otherwise require runtime mitigation.

> Because these are compile-time decisions, they cannot be overridden through kernel command line arguments or sysctl settings at runtime.

Reviewer: We should list some of our compile time security settings like

  - CONFIG_MODULE_SIG_FORCE=y Ubuntu and RHEL build modules signed but don't force signature verification unconditionally; they only enforce it when Secure Boot/lockdown engages. Talos enforces it always.           
  - CONFIG_DEVMEM is not set both Ubuntu and RHEL ship CONFIG_DEVMEM=y (with STRICT_DEVMEM). Disabling /dev/mem entirely is unusual and rules out a whole class of userspace→kernel memory-peek tools.
  - CONFIG_KEXEC is not set with only KEXEC_FILE + KEXEC_SIG + KEXEC_BZIMAGE_VERIFY_SIG — Ubuntu/RHEL leave legacy kexec_load() enabled; Talos forces the signed-file path only.                                       
  - CONFIG_SECURITY_APPARMOR_PARANOID_LOAD=y — Ubuntu explicitly turns this off for profile-load performance; Talos keeps the paranoid hash-verification path.                                                           
  - CONFIG_TRUSTED_KEYS is not set both Ubuntu and RHEL enable the trusted-keys subsystem (TPM-backed keys). Talos doesn't expose it.

This was AI worded but a good start for what Talos does. Especially `CONFIG_MODULE_SIG_FORCE` which can be disabled at run time via `kernel.modules_disabled=1` but it's one of the things we enforce that others typically don't.

### Boot-time parameters

> The kernel command line is the first place Talos enforces security. The following parameters are set on every node at boot:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The kernel command line has default security settings that can be changed and affect the system at run time. The following parameters are set on every node at boot:
```

| Parameter | Purpose |
|-----------|---------|
| `slab_nomerge` | Prevents slab cache merging, closing a common heap exploitation vector |
| `pti=on` | Enables Page Table Isolation, mitigating Meltdown-class CPU vulnerabilities |
| `init_on_alloc=1` | Zeroes memory on allocation, preventing information leaks from uninitialized memory |

`init_on_free` is disabled by default due to its performance impact, but can be enabled for environments with stricter memory safety requirements:

```yaml
machine:
  install:
    extraKernelArgs:

>       - init_on_free=1

Reviewer 2: this is no longer used/deprecated completely

One should use Image Factory to provide extra kernel args.

```

To verify the active kernel command line on a Talos node:

```bash

> talosctl read /proc/cmdline --nodes <node-ip>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
talosctl get cmdline --nodes <node-ip>
```

To view all active kernel parameter settings and their current values:

```bash
talosctl get kernelparamstatus --nodes <node-ip>
```

### Module and memory controls

The final layer covers what code can be loaded into the kernel and how processes can interact with each other's memory. Talos enforces two controls here, both on by default:

- **Kernel module signature verification (`module.sig_enforce=1`)**: This control allows only cryptographically signed modules to be loaded into the kernel. It ensures that anything entering the kernel can be traced back to a trusted source, preventing tampering via unsigned drivers, a common persistence technique in compromised systems.

## OS-level hardening

Talos's architecture eliminates entire categories of OS-level risk that traditional Linux hardening guides address:

| Property | Description |
|----------|-------------|
| No SSH | No remote shell access vector |
| No interactive shell | No local shell access vector |
| Immutable root filesystem | The OS cannot be modified at runtime |
| No package manager | Software cannot be installed at runtime |
| API-only management | All node operations go through the authenticated Talos API |

> | SELinux | SELinux is enabled in enforcing mode, providing mandatory access control on all node processes |

Reviewer 2: this is not true (by default). and it's better if it links to proper docs instead of repeating wrong information

kubectl logs job/kube-bench-worker-skip --namespace=kube-bench
```

## Verifying security state directly

kube-bench is useful for formal compliance reporting, but for day-to-day verification you can inspect Talos security state directly using `talosctl`. These commands give you a live view of what is active on any node without running a separate job:

```bash
# View the overall security state of a node
talosctl get securitystate --nodes <node-ip>

# View all active kernel parameters and their current values
talosctl get kernelparamstatus --nodes <node-ip>

# List running services, confirms the minimal attack surface
talosctl services --nodes <node-ip>

# Inspect the full machine configuration
talosctl get machineconfig --nodes <node-ip> -o yaml
```

## FIPS 140-3 compliant builds

For organizations in regulated environments, Talos Linux is available as a FIPS 140-3 compliant build. FIPS builds run across bare metal, data center, edge, cloud, and air-gapped deployments, and the full Sidero stack including Omni and the Image Factory can be self-hosted to maintain control and oversight.

> The FIPS build is currently in beta. To get access, visit the [Talos Linux FIPS 140-3 compliance page](https://siderolabs.com/fips-compliant-kubernetes-os/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Talos FIPS is currently available as an enterprise feature that requires a support contract for access. To get access, visit the [Talos Linux FIPS 140-3 compliance page](https://siderolabs.com/fips-compliant-kubernetes-os/).
```
